#summary Mapping Alpha 2 Testing Feedback

 
=ALPHA 2 TESTING FEEDBACK - 26 & 27 JULY 2010 WHITEBOARD SESSIONS=
Summary of Alpha 2 feedback gathered April - July 2010.

  *	Migrating service to Google Maps API v3

==SECTION 1  DESIGN AND CARTOGRAPHY ATTRIBUTES==

  *	Aesthetics – general template -  font, colour, size, display standards (eg date/time, screen sizing)
  *	Map layout, controls, location of components, format of tables/info boxes etc
  *	Cartography and graphic design conventions (external consultants)
  *	Custom icons - venues, contributors, organisations, clusters

==SECTION 2  AUSSTAGE INTEGRATION==

PART DEPENDENT ON WORK UNDERTAKEN BY AusStage LIEF

  *	API for dynamically including maps onto pages, wherever AusStage users encounter a list of events
    *	Maps for drilldown pages with lists of events:
      *	Contributor page
      *	Organisation page
      *	Venue page
      *	Work page
 
    *	Maps for search resulting in list of events
      *	Basic search - All Records, Events
      *	Advanced search
  *	List of events should include what can and can’t be mapped
  *	API for accessing map marker data
    *	Ajax techniques
  *	Timeline available outside of a map as standalone feature
  *	Browse alphabetical list of contributors to see potential people to map

==SECTION 3  MAPPING WEB APPLICATION==

  *	Browse map cluster icons required
  *	Clustering of venues in browse map required to resolve speed issue
  *	Zooming of timeline uses uncommon user interface – concerned about negative user experience (mouse wheel)
  *	Size of info window on maps to show maximum content possible (maximise/minimise)
  *	Tooltips on markers on maps (standardised content)
  *	Different coloured markers for each contributor
    *	Eg joe = blue, Mary = red, Paul – green, Multiple = yellow
  *	Zoom to state and capital city via dropdown box.  Extend to other major regional centres?
  *	What information is required in an info window?
  *	Double click marker for zoom
  *	Text based list of venues on a map
  *	Street view in a map?
  *	Start again button
  *	Trajectories to be moved to Google Earth only
  *	Time slider remain available on webpage
    *	Reduced functionality when compared to Google Earth
  *	Maps according to genre
  *	Default view of maps
  *	Display options of information on info window
    *	Similar to Google Earth redesign
  *	Persistent link should offer KML download option
  *	More detailed error messages
  *	Search by ID returns table with intermediatory lines
  *	Tooltips on the markers

==SECTION 4  GOOGLE EARTH ASPECTS== 

TARGETTED FOR USE BY ADVANCED USERS

  *	Tooltips on markers on maps (standardised content)
  *	Trajectory only available in KML version
    *	Trajectory coloured by organisation/contributor
    *	Starts and stops
    *	Indicate direction along trajectory (early version red -> yellow)
  *	Trajectory takes into account function at events
  *	Different colour markers for each contributor/organisation
  *	Trajectory of specific production/tour
  *	ABS overlay
    *	Markers for ease of clicking
  *	Key for trajectory lines
  *	Data sources for overlay -> ABS overlay generator/combiner
  *	Historical Maps for overlays
     *	Goldfields
    *	Transport
  *	“Hot Spot” overlay AKA heatmap
  *	Redesign of info windows
  *	Start and stop of trajectories and progress markers
  *	KML download becomes everything and remove advanced download options
    *	Match KML to list of organisations/contributors/works/events displayed on map at time of download excluding time slider options.
  *	ABS data overlays CSD’s/SLA’s/LGA’s

==SECTION 5  USER DOCUMENTATION==

Summary of suggested items to create for this:  
FAQ’S 	
“Tool tips” and online help 	
User Manual	
Definitions and terms

  *	Why do I not see stuff on my map?
  *	Display options vs KML download options
  *	Hover over marker for more info
  *	KML file vs “Google Earth File”
  *	How to submit changes/updates
  *	How to use KML files and Google Earth
  *	Limitations on data
  *	Reload map button
  *	Venues are displayed on map
  *	Interpreting a map
  *	Search and map multiple contributors/organisations
  *	Navigation between AusStage Website and Mapping service
  *	Use lookup service to locate missing markers such as those for organisations
  *	Care taken in making conclusions based on display without understanding underlying data limitations
  *	How to guide on creating overlay
  *	List of definitions and terms

==SKILLS LIST FOR SERVICE REVISION WORK TO BE DONE==

Frontend:  java script, HTML, Tomcat – Server pages, Maps API, AJAX, JQuery
Backend:  java, KML, Tomcat->Servlets, Oracle SQL
Common:  XML, subversion, ANT

-------
==SERVICE REVISIONS ARISING FROM ALPHA 2 FEEDBACK==

1.	Google Maps V2 vs V3	(All)

SECTION 1  DESIGN AND CARTOGRAPHY ATTRIBUTES

2.	External experts	(Liz)
  *	Graphic design
  *	cartographer

3.	Decide on standardised content for tool tips/info window in web maps and KML	(All)

4.	Implement standard template inc core attributes	(Wei/Corey)

===SECTION 2  AUSSTAGE INTEGRATION===

5.	Map data API	(Corey/Wei)
  *	Organisations
  *	Contributors
  *	Map markers
  *	Timelines
  *	Events
  *	Works

6.	Javascript API for dynamically adding maps to pages	(Wei)

===SECTION 3  MAPPING WEB APPLICATION===

7.	Browse map cluster icons to resolve loading times of browse map	(Brad/Wei)

8.	Timeline advanced functionality	(Wei)
  *	Zoom

9.	Marker coloured by contributor/organisation etc	(Corey/Wei)
  *	One colour for each group
  *	One colour for multiples at same venue

10.	Map zoom via drop down	(Wei)
  *	State 
  *	Capital city
  *	Major regional centre

11.	Explore options for double click to zoom on web maps	(Wei)

12.	Text based list of venues on map	(Wei)


13.	Start again button on multi maps	(Wei)

14.	Decide on provision of maps by genre	(All)

15.	Default tiles on maps - Terrain/satellite etc	(Wei)

16.	More detailed error messages	(Corey)

17.	Search by ID returns table not directly linked to map	(Wei)

===SECTION 4  GOOGLE EARTH ASPECTS=== 

18.	Trajectories	(Corey)
  *	Remove from webapp
  *	Only in KML
  *	Include start/stop
  *	Progress/direction
  *	Coloured by criteria ie organisation
  *	Take into account contributor function at event ie trajectory of all events where director
  *	Production/tour
  *	Colour key for lines

19.	ABS overlay	(All/Corey/Wei)
  *	Simplify display of data – one overlay per state with info window display of data
  *	Use list of agreed data sets
  *	Collection districts/SLA’s/LGA’s
  *	Procedure / tools to make own ABS overlays

20.	Gathering of promised overlays – historical, transport, heatmap/hotspot	All

21.	KML download is all options, no more “advanced option”	(Corey/Wei)
  *	Integrate what is displayed on map in webpage with what is downloaded via KML

22.	Persistent clink maps should provide KML download link	(Corey/Wei)

===SECTION 5  USER DOCUMENTATION===

23.	User documentation	(All/Liz)
  *	FAQ
  *	Online help
  *	User manual
  *	Definitions and terms