=Draft Document=

This is a draft document that outlines the different types of users who will access and use the Aus-e-Stage Audience Feedback Desktop Service

  # *Audiences*
  # *Theatre Companies*
    # Marketing Departments
    # Artistic Departments
  # *Researchers*
    # Undergraduate
    # Post-graduate

== Audiences==

These users will want to use the system to see ‚*what‚* and ‚*where‚*? They will want to see:

  # *what* shows that close them are playing in real time. 
  # what audiences are *saying *about those shows in real time, and
  # *where* those shows are playing. 

*Suitable Visualisation/Display methods*
  * Simple timeline/twitter style feed on mobile *Priority Level 1*
  * Simple timeline/twitter style feed on website *Priority Level 2*
  * Widget that allows the Company to embed the feedback into their site *Priority Level 2*
  * A 'Digital Signage system'  that allows the companies to show the feedback in realtime in say a foyer. *Priority Level 1* 

*Priority level* *1 - key priority because it's also a data collection point. *

== Theatre Companies (a) Marketing Departments==

These users will access the system and want to retrieve demorgraphic and trend-type data about audiences. They will want to be able to analyse discrete as well as general data sets to better inform themselves about what their audience likes, where they live, how they travel, etc, etc. They will not want this information shared with any other users.

It is not the goal of the present project to provide this type of information.

*Priority level 0*

==Theatre Companies (b) Artistic Departments==

These users will want to use the system to further enhance to audience‚' experience/engagement with the production. They might actually use the system very infrequently, but they will want it to provide/reveal a related or tangential thematic by-product of the show for their audiences. 

i.e. they will want audience members'‚ contributions to result in the revealing of a picture

These users will also want the same functionality as audiences (See Audiences)

*Suitable Visualisation/Display methods*
  * These will be determined by the project partners with input from Mobile Service team members *Priority level 1*
  * Image Translation *Priority Level 2*
  * Other visualisation are to be explored with the companies 

==Researchers (a) Undergradute==

These users will access the system and want to retrieve processed data results that allow them to draw some broad and general conclusions from a pool of feedback. They can't have access to downloadable, unprocessed results but they will have access to *geographically*, *chronologically* processed representations of results. They also have access to results have undergo some semantic analysis, to extract keywords related to *emotion* or *geography* or *related performances*.

*Suitable Visualisation/Display methods*

  * tag clouds *Priority Level 1*
  * tree maps 
  * cluster/bubble maps on a timeline, includes a representation of the volume and text *Priority Level 2*
  * emergent tag cloud (filtered tag clouds) *Priority level 2*

==Researchers (b) Post-graduate==

These users will access the system and want to retrieve processed and unprocessed data results. Their public use of the results will be constrained by permission agreements between the performing arts companies/organisations involved, the individual researcher and, likely, the researcher‚' University‚' Ethics Committee, but they will be able to privately* re-process raw data streams *of results. They will access results via an appropriate format (e.g. .xml).

They will also be able to access the same processed data as the users in Researchers (a) Undergraduate (see above). 

*Suitable Visualisation/Display methods*
  * tag clouds *Priority Level 1*
  * tree maps
  * cluster/bubble maps on a timeline, includes a representation of the volume and text *Priority Level 2*
  * emergent tag cloud (filtered tag clouds) 
  * stream graphs - where the size of stream are based on the volume of keywords
  * graph of the volumes of tweets *Priority level 2*