#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Edge List Export =

Note, that this export format exports the entire list of relationships in the dataset. This results in a large file that may take some time to process and download. It is highly recommended that this API be used sparingly and be used on a fast broadband connection. 

Alternative static snapshots of this data may be downloaded from the [http://code.google.com/p/aus-e-stage/downloads/list downloads] section of this website. These static snapshots are only updated on request. 

== Base URL ==

The base URL for the Lookup API is as follows:

http://beta.ausstage.edu.au/networks/export?

== Request Type ==

Get Request

== Available Parameters ==

|| *Name* || *Possible Values* || *Optional* || *Default* ||
|| task    || full-edge-list-with-dups, full-edge-list-no-dups, full-edge-list-with-dups-id-only, full-edge-list-no-dups-id-only|| No || ||

== Parameter Definitions ==

=== Task: full-edge-list-with-dups ===

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format containing duplicate relationships.

=== Task: full-edge-list-no-dups ===

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format that does not contain duplicate relationships.

=== Task: full-edge-list-with-dups-id-only ===

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format that contains ids only.

=== Task: full-edge-list-no-dups-id-only ===

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format that does not contain duplicate relationships and that contains ids only.

== Sample Output ==

=== Full edge lists ===

{{{
id \t given_name \t family_name \t id \t given_name \t family_name \n
}}}

=== Full edge lists (id only)===

{{{
id \t id \n
}}}