#summary How to use the Navigating Networks Export API

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

<h1> Export API </h1>

The export API provides the functionality to export data out of the [NavigatingNetworksDataset Navigating Networks Dataset] in a variety of different formats.

The details of the API are as follows:

= Graph Export =

== Base URL ==

The base URL for the Lookup API is as follows:

http://beta.ausstage.edu.au/networks/export?

Combining this URL with the parameters outlines below retrieves data from the [NavigatingNetworksDataset Navigating Networks Dataset].

== Request Type ==

Get Request

== Available Parameters ==

|| *Name* || *Possible Values* || *Optional* || *Default* ||
|| task    || [NavigatingNetworksDatasetAPIexport#Task:_simple-network-directed simple-network-directed], [NavigatingNetworksDatasetAPIexport#Task:_simple-network-undirected simple-network-undirected]|| No || ||
|| id      || unique identifier of a contributor || No || ||
|| format  || [NavigatingNetworksDatasetAPIexport#Format:_graphml graphml], [NavigatingNetworksDatasetAPIexport#Format:_debug debug] || Yes || graphml ||
|| [NavigatingNetworksDatasetAPIexport#Degrees degrees] || Integer between 1 and 3 || Yes || 1 ||

== Parameter Definitions ==

=== Task: simple-network-directed ===

A basic directed ego-centric network starting with the contributor with the supplied id. 

=== Task: simple-network-undirected ===

A basic un-directed ego-centric network starting with the contributor with the supplied id. 

=== Format: graphml ===

This export format uses the [http://graphml.graphdrawing.org/primer/graphml-primer.html GraphML] data format and includes edges and nodes.

=== Format: debug ===

This export format provides a text based representation of the internal data structures used by the service while compiling the graph. The format is as follows:

id - list of collaborators - number of collaborators in the list

For example:

`111 - 101, 102, 1324, 56789 - 4`

=== Degrees ===

The degrees of separation to follow from the central node as defined by the supplied id parameter.

= Edge List Export =

Note, that this export format exports the entire list of relationships in the dataset. This results in a large file that may take some time to process and download. It is highly recommended that this API be used sparingly and be used on a fast broadband connection. 

Alternative static snapshots of this data may be downloaded from the [http://code.google.com/p/aus-e-stage/downloads/list downloads] section of this website. These static snapshots are only updated on request. 

== Base URL ==

The base URL for the Lookup API is as follows:

http://beta.ausstage.edu.au/networks/export?

== Request Type ==

Get Request

== Available Parameters ==

|| *Name* || *Possible Values* || *Optional* || *Default* ||
|| task    || full-edge-list-with-dups, full-edge-list-no-dups, full-edge-list-with-dups-id-only, full-edge-list-no-dups-id-only|| No || ||

= Parameter Definitions =

== Task: full-edge-list-with-dups ==

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format containing duplicate relationships.

== Task: full-edge-list-no-dups ==

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format that does not contain duplicate relationships.

== Task: full-edge-list-with-dups-id-only ==

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format that contains ids only.

== Task: full-edge-list-no-dups-id-only ==

A full export of the dataset in the edge list format that does not contain duplicate relationships and that contains ids only.