#summary Goals of the Navigating Networks Service

<h1>Navigating Networks Goals </h1>

Below is a list of goals for the [NetworksService Navigating Networks Service]. 

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Network Browsing - Person-to-Person - Graphic Interface=

== Graphic Interface ==

I'm looking at director Neil Armfield in AusStage - and I can see a network graphic in which Neil is a spot at the centre of his network of collaborators. I can see all the people he's worked with, and their connections as well. If I click on one of those people, I get to see all the people they've worked with, and so on. Neil is the starting point for a potentially endless visual exploration. 

*Desirability Rank:*  100%

== Time-slider ==

As I'm browsing through network, there is a time-slider where I can set the time-period (start date and end date) - and the network only displays collaborations which occurred on events between those dates. When I specify a start date and end date, collaborations that fall outside the period fade from review. 

*Desirability Rank:* 84%

== Faceted browsing == 

As I'm browsing through a network, there is a panel to the side where I can click on options or specify criteria to narrow the display of contributors and their links. For example, just show me female directors, or just show me actors, over the age of 40, who have also been directors. When I specify these criteria, some areas of the network are highlighted, others fade into the background. 

*Desirability Rank:* 84%

== Pop-ups ==

As I'm browsing through a network, I can click on people to find out more information such as other names, gender, date of birth, nationality, company associations, training history. I can also click on links between people to find out information about their number of collaborations, their frequency, date range, their roles in relation to each other, and so on. 

*Desirability Rank:* 76%

= Network Browsing - Person-to-person - Text Interface =

== Key collaborators ==

I'm looking at Rosalba Clemente in AusStage - and I can see a list of the people she has worked with. The list is ranked in order of frequency - most frequent collaborators at the top – and alongside each name is date range, and a list of their roles. When I click on a collaborator's name, I get to their page, and see the list of their collaborators, and so on.

*Desirability Rank:* 84%

== Key organisations ==

I'm looking at Rosalba Clemente again - and I can see a list of the organisations she has worked with. The list is ranked in order of frequency - most frequent organisations at the top - and alongside each name is a date range, and a list of roles. When I click on an organisation's name, I get to the organisation page. 

*Desirability Rank:* 72%

= Network Search and Display - Person-to-person =

Search AusStage for contributors and events, and display the results graphically as a an interactive network. Search provides another way into exploring networks of collaboration between people. The interface for displaying results could also enable further navigating through the network, refining the display with time-slider, faceted browsing and so on.

== Search for connections between collaborators == 

I select two or more contributors - and display the network of contributors that connects them. This is a way of exploring closeness, degrees of separation, lines of influence, artistic families, and so on. For example, what's the connection between Jim Sharman and Benedict Andrews? I could see they're linked by Patrick White. 

*Desirability Rank:*  88%

== Search for events matching criteria == 

I provide some search criteria for genre, status, content indicators and/or keyword, etc - and I ask AusStage to display the network of all the people who worked on events matching those criteria. For example, show me the network of collaborators who've worked in burlesque. 

*Desirability Rank:*  68%

== Search by organisation ==

I select an organisation (or organisations) and ask AusStage to display the network of all the people who worked at the organisation. For example, show me the network of collaborators who worked on events produced by HotHouse Theatre. 

*Desirability Rank:* 64%

== Search by venue ==

I select a venue (or venues) and ask AusStage to display the network of all the people who worked at the venue. For example, show me the network of collaborators who've worked at Belvoir Street in Sydney. 

*Desirability Rank:* 56%

= Networks and Timelines =

== Contributor Career as a line on a timeline ==

I'm looking at a contributor's career as a line on a timeline. Their collaborators are also lines on the timeline, running in parallel. When two or more contributors are working together on an event, their lines converge, running in tandem for the duration of the event, and then they spread out. Reading along the timeline, I can see the frequency of collaborations and their duration over time. I can also see which collaborators are converging, at which points in time and how often. 

*Desirability Rank:* 76%

== Contributor Career Pathways == 

I want to map the works on BUZZ, STRUT, STEPS and LINK while also catching the career pathways of individual AD's of each company. In my mind the companies sit on one axis (say horizontal) and the individuals sit on another (say vertical). I then imagine where the lines cross. For example, Felicity Bott will cross STEPS and BUZZ. Alice Hollands will cross STEPS and STRUT. There will also be Phillipa Clarke crossing BUZZ and LINK, Chrissie Parrott and Michael Whaites for LINK. And many more too. The idea of incorporating a third dimension for time also sounds good. JB: I'm seeing companies as the horizontal lines, with artists as lines weaving across them and intersecting at events. If the events are spread along the company lines in chronological order, that would get the time element included. So to construct this kind of diagram - you'd select one or more companies and one or more artists - and then ask the system to build a timeline that weaves them together. 

*Desirability Rank:* 60%

= Network Browsing - Event-to-event = 

Event-to-event networks provide an alternative way of exploring collaborations. In these graphics, the events are the spots and the lines connecting them are people.

== Event-to-event network graphic ==

I'm looking at an event in AusStage - and I can see a network graphic. The event I'm looking at is a spot at the centre of a network of related events. These related events are linked by the artists who have worked on them. If I click on a link, I find out who it is, and I can see their pathway through a series of events. If I click on an event on the edge, the display reveals the connections to further events. The event is the starting point for visual exploration of artists' pathways from event to event. 

*Desirability Rank:* 68%

== Advanced Features == 

Advanced features for refining the display of event-to-event networks could also include pop-ups, time-slider and faceted browsing. 

*Desirability Rank:* 56%

== Search and Display == 

Search and display by venue, organisations, event-criteria and connections could also be used as a way into exploring event-to-event networks. 

*Desirability Rank:* 56%

= Dynamic Networks =

I'm looking at a network of collaborations in AusStage and I want to see how that network has changed over time, how it has evolved, where people joined and left, who stuck around, when the network grew, shrank, changed shape and so on. 

== Animation ==

I'm looking at a network at a particular point in time. I hit play and the network animates through a series of changes - as new people are added, others leave with each collaboration, the network shifts and changes shape. I can hit pause at any point and see the time. I can also use a time-mark to scrub through the animation. 

*Desirability Rank:* 64%

== Time-slices ==

I'm looking at a network as a series of time-slices- each representing the network at successive points in time. The time-slices are arranged in three-dimensional space, with time as the third dimension. By manipulating the view, and looking at the time-slices from different angles, I can explore change over time. 

*Desirability Rank:* 60%

== Fly-throughs == 

I'm looking at a network as a series of time-slices - arranged in three-dimensional space. But this time, instead of rotating the object, I can fly through it - moving forwards and backwards in time, I can see the state of the network at any point in time. 

*Desirability Rank:* 56%

= Networks and Maps =

I'm looking at a contributor's career as a line on a map. The line links the venues at which the contributor has performed in chronological order. Following the line from beginning to end, I can see where the contributor has performed over time. If I start adding their collaborators to the map, I can see where those collaborators have worked together, how often, and at which points they head off on their own. This is similar to the timeline, with events displayed geographically on a map. 

*Desirability Rank:* 60%

= Statistical Analysis and Pattern Matching =

I'm looking at a network of collaborations in AusStage and I want to explore its statistical properties - degree of connection, shortest path, clustering and so on. I might want to compare its statistical properties to other networks. I might want to search AusStage for other network areas with similar or matching properties. 

*Desirability Rank:* 44% 