#summary Main page for the Navigating Network Service

<h1> Navigating Networks </h1>

The Navigating Network Service will provide an interactive interface for navigating and analysing the network of artistic collaborations embedded in the [http://www.ausstage.edu.au AusStage] dataset. The service will present existing data in new ways and allow researchers to interrogate the collaborative methodologies underpinning creativity in the performing arts. 

A network-based interface will humanise the representation of artists in !AusStage by modelling the collaborative ethic of the performing arts. The interface will transform research practice in the performing arts. The application of network visualisation and analysis will reveal patterns of collaborative creativity in the performing arts that have previously been unrepresentable using conventional text-based displays.

Below is an evolving list of documents here our wiki about the service


== Navigating Networks Dataset == 

The NavigatingNetworksDataset is a periodically updated export of data sourced from the main !AusStage relational database. The dataset is constructed using the RdfExport application.  

== Navigating Networks Goals == 

The NavigatingNetworksGoals page details the goals and ideas that will be incorporated into the interface.

== Navigating Networks Specification ==

The NavigatingNetworksSpecification specifies the development requirements for implementing the Navigating Networks service. It summarises the exploratory research we have undertaken on the visualisation and analysis of networks in the AusStage dataset, outlines the research needs for network analysis, describes the technical requirements for implementing the ideas for network interface, evaluates the tools and technologies underlying the service, and outlines a development schedule.